---
title: "My SSG (Static Site Generation) Blog"
date: "LAST UPDATED: 2026-06-02"
type: "project"
slug: "project-ssg-blog"
tags: ["Go", "SSG", "This blog"]
---

I had originally decided to create a blog using Hugo, however I thought it would be better to create my own simple static site generator using Go as a learning exercise.

# General flow

## Step 1: Templates

Create simple html template files.

Create a folder, "Contents", to keep markdown files in.

## Step 2: Parse markdown

Create a function to parse markdown.

Iterate through "Contents" parsing each file into two parts: a PostData struct including data from frontmatter (using yaml reading library), and html string of the written content using the goldmark library.

Add content to PostData struct (post.Content), also adding a link address (post.Link) based on its slug or title if there is no slug.

```
type PostData struct {
    Title   string
    Date    string
    Type    string
    Slug    string
    Tags    []string
    Link    string
    Content template.HTML
}
```

## Step 3: Create urls

Add these parsed post objects to the slice they belong (posts, projects).

Create a path for each post before generating the HTML for it (index.html) to create clean URLs. GenerateHTML creates the folder tree based on the created path.

Generate HTML and put it in public folder. This is what will be used for the site.

## Step 4: Handling static assets

Copy over any static pages like CSS from the static folder into the public folder.

# Additional Notes

## Serve flag

Add a `--serve` flag so that a server can be used in development but not when it is pushed to Github and Git actions.

## Tags

Create a map for tags connected to posts to ensure they are not duplicated and can be used to filter entries.

## Github actions

Create a deploy.yaml file that is triggered on every push to Github so that the live site is updated with the latest built files.

## Partials

Extract shared components, sidemenu and light dark mode toggle, to clean up templates.

Code can be found here:
[_This Blog's Code_](https://github.com/dnlaxe/dnlaxe.github.io)

## Air

During development I use this very useful tool called Air which monitors specified files and directories (`air.toml`) for changes, and then triggers `go build` to generate a new binary which is saved into a tmp folder to stop it from cluttering up in my project root. This is a different place from where `go build` will place final builds. Go is a compiled language and needs to create a new binary to show new changes.
